We respectfully address our esteemed teacher,
as Vietnamese Teachers' Day approaches.
Since our
school days, we have learned and
practiced the importance of gratitude towards
our teachers. We believe this
is a very beautiful tradition
of the Vietnamese people.
Reflecting on Buddhism, we
realize that from a young age, our parents and
grandparents have been our teachers,
always teaching us morality. Even in
elementary school, the
most important thing all
teachers taught was morality; it was the foundation.
Therefore, morality was a subject used to
assess whether students could advance to the next grade.
If a student had poor conduct but
high grades, they wouldn't be able to move up. So,
we see that, ultimately, everyone
wants to teach morality to
people. This applies to all
vocational schools, and as students grow up, each
person finds their own profession, perhaps through self-study.
But from this perspective, morality remains paramount.
Because with morality,
one can learn a trade to benefit
their family, support their parents, spouse, and children,
and contribute to society.  For society, morality is still paramount.
Therefore, no subject in
this world, no matter what it teaches, if it is the
Dharma of goodness, its ultimate goal remains morality. The
root of this is morality,
and we know the Dharma, we know our
master, who taught us the Buddha's teachings. Only
then did we turn our hearts to
cultivate our
morality. We realize that for a long time in our lives, we may have forgotten to learn a trade and work, but we also forgot about morality—something that all schools pay attention to: teaching morality. A
profession can only develop on a foundation
of morality to make a good contribution
to society.
But when we studied in the world,
because of greed, we forgot that root.
We only returned to that root
when we learned the teachings of the Buddha. Our master and the
monks are the ones who
transmit the Buddha's teachings. Only then did we
realize that if
we build morality first and
develop our profession simultaneously,
our contributions will be more meaningful.  We are happy,
joyful, and able to strive and contribute more
without getting
tired. Therefore,
we are very fortunate to have met our
master and the monks who have taught us. In
each of our master's lectures, he has
found suitable scriptures
for us lay Buddhists. Although he teaches the monks,
when he lectures, he also
aims to teach lay Buddhists.
Therefore, all of us Buddhists at Ba
Vang Temple see that everyone who practices diligently has their
morality increased, and they
become more responsible towards their families and
society. We have returned to the
moral foundation taught by the Buddha, all thanks to our
master's grace. Our
master is someone who goes his own way but does
not abandon sentient beings. Our master
once said that he is a practitioner, but
in his practice, so
many people have come to know the Dharma and
understand what practice is. Our master cares for himself
but always accompanies and cares for
those who have a karmic connection with him, which
is us Buddhists. We respectfully express our gratitude to our
master on
Vietnamese Teachers' Day.
Our hearts are not just focused
on Teacher's Day; we are
always grateful to our
grandparents, parents, and all those who have helped
us achieve success. Even the smallest things must always be
appreciated, because all
our achievements come from our teacher.
Without our teacher's guidance, we
would have become people who constantly
seek material things and forget our inner selves,
as our teacher taught us in the Sutra of the Wise Man during today's Eight Precepts practice.
We respectfully express our gratitude to our teacher, our
gratitude for his kindness towards
us Buddhist followers, and our gratitude for his Bodhi mind. He
not only seeks liberation for himself
but also helps
many other beings achieve liberation.
We also learned the
Bodhi Vow from our teacher, and we have been given the Bodhi mind to cultivate. We vow to
follow our teacher's example on our path to liberation, to follow the
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, and to
benefit the East, not to be selfish and only care
for ourselves. Our teacher taught us the teachings of the Buddha
and our teacher.  He is an example for
us to follow; nothing is more precious than
someone who acts, speaks, walks, and
guides so many others.
Today,
we borrow the worldly Dharma to
express ourselves in this way, and in the hearts
of everyone, when we turn towards
Teacher's Day, our hearts
turn towards our teachers,
our parents, our first masters. We
cannot help but turn towards our master. We know
that in this life we ​​have received such
good things, and in many future lives,
we will continue to do good things because of the karmic connection with our
master in this life. We respectfully express our deepest
gratitude to our master.
We only know to follow our master's wish: that each and every one of us should know the Buddha's teachings and
then
strive diligently. Just as our master teaches us to cultivate Bodhicitta (the aspiration for enlightenment) for one year and
one day to
cultivate Bodhicitta, we should uphold the Three Jewels and
transfer the Buddha's teachings to all
sentient beings. This is our merit, and we believe
this is our master's heart. Our master has
practiced and encouraged us to
practice as he has taught us.
All lay Buddhists, as well as the children
in the La H La Club, the "
Children Live Virtuously" Club, build
their lives positively, take control of
their lives, and build a better society. We respectfully follow the
teachings and practice them. Today,
approaching November 20th, we offer this
flower arrangement as a symbol of
our gratitude to Venerable Thich Phu and all the Venerable monks of the
Buddhist Sangha. We ask Venerable Thich Phu to bear witness to
our growing gratitude,
so that we may be guided towards the root of
morality, diligently practicing the Buddha's teachings, cultivating morality for
ourselves and for the
benefit of the multitude, following in
the footsteps of our master to follow the Buddhas, to
achieve enlightenment for ourselves and for all sentient beings. We respectfully express our gratitude to our master. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]